Ci107332 (#5021)
MicrosoftDocs/windows-itpro-docs: mdop/mbam-v25/deploy-mbam.md

---
title: Deploying MBAM 2.5 in a stand-alone configuration
description: Introducing how to deploy MBAM 2.5 in a stand-alone configuration.
author: delhan
ms.reviewer: 
manager: dcscontentpm
ms.author: delhan
ms.sitesec: library
ms.prod: w10
ms.date: 09/16/2019
--- 

# Deploying MBAM 2.5 in a standalone configuration

> This article provides step-by-step instructions for installing Microsoft BitLocker Administration and Monitoring (MBAM) 2.5 in a standalone configuration. In this guide we will use a two-server configuration. One of the two servers will be a database server that is running Microsoft SQL Server 2012. This server will host the MBAM databases and reports. The additional server will be a Windows Server 2012 web server and will host "Administration and Monitoring Server" and "Self-Service Portal."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This article provides step-by-step instructions for installing Microsoft BitLocker Administration and Monitoring (MBAM) 2.5 in a standalone configuration. In this guide we will use a two-server configuration. One of the two servers will be a database server running Microsoft SQL Server 2012. This server will host the MBAM databases and reports. The additional server will be a Windows Server 2012 web server hosting "Administration and Monitoring Server" and "Self-Service Portal."
```

## Preparation steps before installing MBAM 2.5 server software

### Step 1: Installation and configuration of servers

> Before we start to configure MBAM 2.5, we have to make sure that we have both servers configured per MBAM system requirements. See the [MBAM minimum system requirements](https://docs.microsoft.com/microsoft-desktop-optimization-pack/mbam-v25/mbam-25-supported-configurations#-mbam-server-system-requirements), and select a configuration that meets these requirements. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before we start configuring MBAM 2.5, we have to make sure that both servers are configured as per MBAM system requirements. See the [MBAM minimum system requirements](https://docs.microsoft.com/microsoft-desktop-optimization-pack/mbam-v25/mbam-25-supported-configurations#-mbam-server-system-requirements), and select a configuration that meets these requirements. 
```

#### Step 1.1: Deploying prerequisites for database and reporting server

> 1. Install and configure a server that is running Windows Server 2008 R2 or a later operating system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Install and configure a server running Windows Server 2008 R2 (or later) operating system.
```

2. Install Windows PowerShell 3.0.

> 3. Install Microsoft SQL Server 2008 R2 or a later version that includes the latest service pack. If you are installing a new instance of SQL Server for MBAM, make sure that you install SQL Server to have SQL_Latin1_General_CP1_CI_AS collation. You’ll have to install the following SQL Server features:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Install Microsoft SQL Server 2008 R2 or a later version that includes the latest service pack. If you are installing a new instance of SQL Server for MBAM, make sure the SQL Server you install includes the SQL_Latin1_General_CP1_CI_AS collation. You’ll have to install the following SQL Server features:
```

    * Database Engine
    * Reporting Services
    * Client Tools Connectivity
    * Management Tools – Complete

    >[!Note]
    >Optionally, you can also install the [Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) feature in SQL Server](https://docs.microsoft.com/microsoft-desktop-optimization-pack/mbam-v25/mbam-25-security-considerations).

    SQL Server Reporting Services must be installed and configured in "native" mode and not in unconfigured or "SharePoint" mode.

    ![The required SQL Server features](images/deploying-MBAM-1.png)

> 4. If you plan to use SSL for the Administration and Monitoring website, make sure that you configure SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) to use the Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) protocol before you configure the Administration and Monitoring website. Otherwise, the Reports feature will use "HTTP" instead of "HTTPS."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. If you plan to use SSL for the Administration and Monitoring website, make sure that you configure SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) to use the Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) protocol before you configure the Administration and Monitoring website. Otherwise, the Reports feature will use unencrypted (HTTP) data transport instead of encrypted (HTTPS).
```
